overworked advanced tutorial `Views and Subviews`, `Kernel - Parallelism` and `Working With Multidimensional Kernels` (#522)
alpaka-group/alpaka3: docs/source/tutorial/multidim.rst

Author: @psychocoderHPC Please describe a little more, what the algorithm should do. It is hard to understand.

If I'm not wrong, you have a 2D grid and you select an element with the coordinate (y,x). You take the values (y-1, x), (y+1, x), (y, x+1), (y, x-1) and add it to the value of position (y,x). Than divide it by 5 to get the average of all values.

Reviewer: It is a 5 point stencil. I do not know what else to add; it is a well-known computing pattern.

```
If I'm not wrong, you have a 2D grid and you select an element with the coordinate (y,x). You take the values (y-1, x), (y+1, x), (y, x+1), (y, x-1) and add it to the value of position (y,x). Then divide it by 5 to get the average of all values.
```

Yes, this is a typical `five-point average` stencil. The equations is not important, you can use any stencil, even with weightings for each neighbor. This here is a very easy example; the stencil depends on the problem the user would like to solve.

Author: Okay, I asked 3 people. Pavel could explain it. Richard and Alex had different ideas and I had no idea until I read the code. But I know alpaka. Therefore I could reconstruct the meaning from the code.

Reviewer: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iterative_Stencil_Loops and a simple example https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway%27s_Game_of_Life

Author: @psychocoderHPC I think this sentence is wrong. Normally you update only our own position and not neighbors.

Reviewer: You are right but you reference an outdated version, it is

```
Update neighbor locations by adding or subtracting direction vectors from the current Vec index.
```

Author: It does not change the actual meaning. In pseudo code, your sentence means:

```c++
auto my_idx = getGlobalIdx();
out[my_idx + 1] = in[my_idx] + in[my_idx - 1]
```

Normally a stencil code is doing something like:
```c++
auto my_idx = getGlobalIdx();
out[my_idx] = in[my_idx + 1] + in[my_idx - 1]
```

Reviewer: Maybe

```
Indices relative to the index of the output coordinate are used to load the neighbor data.
```

I agree that `update` could suggest writing to the neighbor's data.

Author: @psychocoderHPC I don't understand the sentence. Most of the time, boundary checks are required to process real world problem.

Maybe you mean something like processing a vector with SIMD commands. Therefore divide the vector in chunks of the size of our SIMD unit plus a residual. If you process the SIMD chunks, no boundary check is required because it is done before. Only processing the residual requires boundary checks.

Reviewer: No this kernel has nothing to do with SIMD.
In a stencil algorithm, you have an inner reagion/range where you can apply the stencil functor without out-of-bounce checks and you have boundaries. The stencil in the boundaries looks different, sometimes you skip simply not existing values, or you apply a completely different functor.
It is better to have our own kernel for the boundary but for simplicity, this is not done in this example, because it "only" affects the performance and not the correctness.
Another reason for having a separate kernel is that if you have different stencil functors for the boundary and inner part, you could increase the register footprint because the boundary stencil is often more complex.

Author: The SIMD was only a example to understand.

Okay, if I understand it correctly. This part of the documentation does not use stencil as example to explain how multi-dimensional kernel and memory works. It explains how to implement a stencil code in alpaka.

Reviewer: > This part of the documentation does not use stencil as example to explain how multi-dimensional kernel and memory works

Both are going hand in hand. A multi-dimensional stencil is a typical example where you use multi-dimensional data, especially within our group.

    :end-before: END-TUTORIAL-multidimFrameSpec
    :dedent:

We recommend that the frame shape should follow the logical shape of the work.
Typical use cases for different dimensions are:

- 1D frames for flat vectors and simple reductions.
- 2D frames for images, matrices, and most stencil codes.
- 3D frames for volumetric problems, such as the position of particles in a space.

> - ND frames for algorithms that have more than three natural dimensions, such as position coordinate plus a time stamp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ND frames for algorithms that have more than three natural dimensions, such as position coordinates and discretized time, e.g., to build a layered detector within our particle simulation.
```

The following habits are worth learning from the start:

- Keep boundary handling explicit. It is fine to have branching for the border in the first implementation.

> - Iterate over the full valid problem range, not over guessed thread ids. Let alpaka deal with the mapping from threads to your problem.

Author: The is part of the chunking page.

Reviewer: It has nothing to do with chunking; it is the repetition that the user should not start dealing with thread indices. IMO it is very important, everyone who comes from CUDA/HIP will start doing complex thread ID operations.
The reason why it is mentioned multiple times in the tutorial is that this should be avoided.

Author: I mean the `Kernel - Parallelism` page. The chunking page is something different or not. I lost a little bit the overview about the documentation.

Reviewer: `Kernel - Parallelism` -> grid, block, warp, and thread hierarchy and chunking play both on the same category.
In HPC, thread parallelism and memory locality have been around for ages. Data domain decomposition aka. chunking, is the concept to express data locality. 
Since we have GPUs more thread hierarchy levels are available within the compute device. The levels must be controlled explicitly by mapping the thread hierarchy layers to data chunks. Typically, with each level, you become more fine-grained until you have mostly a one-to-one mapping of single data elements to the threads.
